Well, as we consider James 5, we get the sense of how much Jehovah loves us, and he has
such a desire for us to live forever in experience the real life in his new world.
Let's open our Bibles to James chapter 5, and let's read verse 11 together, and let's
get the sense of Jehovah's love for us.
In fact, as we consider the book of James, it's really that Jehovah talking to us, and
really expressing his desire for us to live forever in what we need to do to do so.
So let's look at James chapter 5, note as verse 11 says, look, we consider happy those
who've endured.
You've heard of the endurance of Job, and you've seen the outcome Jehovah gave, that Jehovah
is very tender in affection and merciful.
Now endurance for a Christian means to do what is right, despite opposition, persecution,
temptation, the trials we face, or really anything that can knock us off our course of integrity.
As Christians, we endure.
We continue to keep our devotion to Jehovah.
And Jehovah's telling us, if we endure, we'll be happy.
One of the reasons we'll be happy is because Jehovah is the rewarder of those earnestly
seeking him.
It's as if Jehovah is telling us, it's going to be worth it.
Just hang in there.
Don't give up.
What I have in store for you personally, you're going to be fine, such joy in, and you're
going to say it was worth it.
Now Jehovah does more than just tell us that.
And notice what the qualities he displays toward us in verse 11, toward the end there.
It says that Jehovah is very tender in affection and merciful.
Now the footnote brings out tender in affection, could also be compassionate, or is Jehovah's
ability to understand our makeup, our background, and extend forgiveness toward us.
But more than just that, by saying that he is merciful, he's letting us know that he
is actively helping us.
Because that's what mercy can mean.
It means seeing someone in distress and actively helping them.
And that's what Jehovah does for us.
He helps us to endure.
In fact, when I think about that word, mercy, I think about the lesson number 20, be truthful
and become Jehovah's friend series.
That's the account where Caleb is playing, and he knocks over and breaks a vase, a precious
item there in the house.
And as his father inquires what happens, he doesn't tell the truth.
He tells a lie.
Most father patiently reasons with them, gives them a little bit of counsel, and Caleb
apologizes, and his father forgives him.
But what does his father do at the end?
He says, come on, let us pick up the pieces together.
And isn't that what Jehovah does for us?
His mercy moves us to help us, to comfort us, and as a result, kind of pick up the pieces
in our life and help us keep going in our service to him.
Now Jehovah also provides us something else to help us endure.
That's outlined for us in verse 10.
James chapter 5, and notice verse 10, says, brothers, take as a pattern of the suffering
of evil and the exercising of patience, the prophets, who spoke in the name of Jehovah.
So we have the pattern, patience, and the prophets.
So patience is that quality that helps us put up with difficult circumstances and maintain
a positive attitude.
And for a Christian, it means waiting on Jehovah.
It's closely linked to endurance.
Now what is the patience, or what is the pattern of patience that the prophets set that
we can benefit from?
As Jehovah had recorded in his word, the circumstances and lives of faithful servants in the past,
the prophets, and how they endured can really help us to endure in these last days.
Let's just consider some of the things the prophets had to deal with.
They had to deal with unresponsive territory.
In fact, Isaiah preached for over four decades to a people that very rarely listen to him.
They dealt with persecution.
They dealt with physical abuse.
And they had challenging assignments.
In fact, Ezekiel had a lay on his left side for 390 days, and then on his right side,
440 days.
And Jeremiah had a challenging assignment once.
He had to travel 300 miles, a very difficult terrain to bury a linen belt, to return back
home, and then to do it again, 1,200 miles in all.
He endured that challenging assignment.
They had to deal with rejection, betrayal of companions, opposition, death of loved ones,
and even the seeming delay of the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises.
Many of them expressed that they were just tired of all the bad things around them and
hearing bad news.
Well, their circumstances are very similar to the things Jehovah's people we experienced
today.
Well, what pattern did they set that helped them to endure that we can benefit from?
Well, let's consider some of their words and what helped them to endure.
And as we consider their words, notice the pattern that emerges.
But take for example, Jonah, at Jonah, chapter 2, verse 9, you will find him in the depth
of the fish's belly.
He is erred.
He doesn't know if Jehovah ever forgives him, but notice what he says.
He says, but as for me, with the voice of Thanksgiving, I will sacrifice to you.
What I have vowed, I will pay, Jonah resolved in his heart that despite the past, moving
forward, he was going to obey Jehovah that helped him endure.
Joel, chapter 9, or chapter 1, verse 19, ones are trying to tell him to give up in his
worship to Jehovah.
It wasn't worth it.
What did he say?
He says, to you, Jehovah, I shall call.
To you, O Jehovah, I will call.
He made the personal choice that no matter what anyone else does, I'm serving Jehovah.
What about Amos?
Amos was told that his services weren't needed, and he really wasn't qualified to be a prophet.
Well, did that stop him?
At Amos 38, he says, the sovereign Lord has spoken, who will not prophesy?
Yes, he made the personal choice that no matter what anyone else does, or when everyone
else says he should do, he was going to obey Jehovah.
He was going to continue in his course of integrity.
A Micah, a Micah 7.7 said, but as for me, I will keep on the lookout for Jehovah, the
lookout personally in his life, in his life, as well as the promises that were to come.
He says, I will show a waiting attitude for the God of my salvation.
Do you see the pattern that's emerging that the prophets laid out for us?
Despite difficult circumstances, they poured their heart out to Jehovah, and they personally
resolved that they were not going to give up.
They are going to trust in Jehovah.
And really, when we look at Habakkuk 3, we really see how that pattern comes to the
four.
Let's go to Habakkuk 3.
When we know Habakkuk, he was wondering when the end was going to come.
It seemed to be delaying.
He was worn out from the bad news and the bad things he saw around him.
But notice the pattern he set for us.
Habakkuk 3, verse 16 and 17, he talks about all the discouraging things that are taking
place around him.
But notice his resolve, verse 18.
He says, yet as for me, I will exalt in Jehovah.
I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.
The sovereign Lord Jehovah is my strength.
He will make my feet like those of a deer and cause me to tread on high places.
The 2018, November, a watchtower said this regarding verse 18.
One scholar says, this verse could literally mean, I will jump for joy in the Lord.
I will spin around for delight in God.
What gave Habakkuk such joy when just a little bit ago, previously, he was discouraged because
of what was taking place around him?
When the member of what verse 18 says, he starts off by saying, yet as for me, yes, he
determined in his heart and mind that he was going to trust in Jehovah.
He was going to endure, and that gave him a positive attitude.
Nothing changed, the timeline didn't change, the circumstances didn't change, but as
the attitude did, and that strengthened him.
So what have we learned this morning?
Well we learned that Jehovah wants us to endure, and he has many good things in store
for us.
We've also learned that he is actively helping us to endure, comforting us, strengthening
us, forgiving us.
We've also learned about the pattern of the prophets, how we can personally choose to stay
loyal to Jehovah and be determined not to give up.